---
layout: post
title: 'Introduction: Who are the Regents?'
subtitle: 'Our first installment in our new series <em>The Regents vs. the Revolution</em>'
date: 2024-09-08
---

The Board of Regents is the University of Michigan's highest governing
body. The Regents, by controlling many major University decisions
including the governance of UM's \$20 billion endowment, are the primary
targets of the TAHRIR Coalition's against U-M\'s material complicity.
The TAHRIR Coalition combats systems of oppression, chief among which
has been the investments into israel's apartheid regime and campaign of
genocide against the Palestinian people in Gaza; the Regents decide
whether our claims are legitimate and have refused to answer for their
crimes. To put it simply, the Regents stand between activist demands and
divestment.

_Why is this the case_? Why have the Regents upheld for decades a mantra
that the endowment should be "shielded from political pressures?" Why
would they choose to uphold violence, death, and the highly political
appearance of neutrality instead of standing for human rights, justice,
and peace? And how can we, activists and organizers from across the
University and Southeast Michigan, fight to change this?

This post is the first in a series of articles answering these
questions, brought to you by the TAHRIR Coalition's Research Team. We
answered earlier in the year what the endowment is invested in and
outlined the structures of governance around the Investments Office that
made this possible. This set of articles extends that analysis of the
University's complicity to understand who is responsible for these
connections and how we might be able to force their hand. These come
from hundreds of hours filing FOIA requests, searching through election
donation records, poring over meeting minutes of the Regents, digging up
old campaign websites from the Internet Archive, and more.

With our research, we don't seek to answer how we can appeal to the
Regents' sense of sympathy, if it exists, or to explore argumentative
frameworks that can lend us legitimacy. We've seen through our research
and interactions with the Regents over the past year that they stand for
little except what personally benefits them. The Regents don't stand for
the people.

So what _do_ the Regents stand for? For the rest of this article, we'll
think through that question by recovering how the Regents behaved during
the fight for divestment from South African apartheid.[^1] Legacies of
activism are not only informative here because we seek to divest from a
similar regime today, but because the Regents attempted many of the same
tactics in the 1970s as they do now.

Despite the unequivocal human rights violations committed by the South
African apartheid regime and activist demands to divest since the Black
Action Movement of 1975 ("BAM II"), the Regents were reluctant to
divest. They attempted to appeal these demands through a resolution on
March 16, 1978 that simply asked corporations to adhere to the
[["Sullivan
Principles"]](https://michiganintheworld.history.lsa.umich.edu/antiapartheid/exhibits/show/exhibit/origins/sullivan-principles)
of ethical and sustainable business practices. Rather than move their
money away from corporations complicit in the apartheid regime, the
Regents instead adopted a non-binding resolution to ask corporations
politely if they could try being ethical. Of course, the corporations
did not; business as usual with South Africa continued without
anti-segregationist stances that the Sullivan Principles proclaimed.

This maneuver angered many students, who continued to mobilize over the
next several years to push the University to divest. To students,
adoption of the Principles was counterproductive and a liberal
distraction; even the apartheid South African government approved of
them. U-M students were not alone, as anti-apartheid activism swept the
United States. [[Led by Ann Arbor State Rep. Perry
Bullard]](https://michiganintheworld.history.lsa.umich.edu/antiapartheid/exhibits/show/exhibit/expansion-and-resistance--1980/early_bills),
the Michigan Legislature passed Public Act 512 into law on December
31st, 1982. Public Act 512, the first act of its kind in the United
States, compelled all public universities in the State of Michigan to
stop investing in companies doing business in South Africa and the
Soviet Union.

Rather than immediately adhere to this mandate, the Regents engaged in a
lengthy debate on April 14, 1983 on whether or not to comply with the
state law. Paradoxically, the Regents voted on the same day both to
divest 90% of its holdings associated with South Africa _and_ to fight
Public Act 512 in court. _The Regents of the University of Michigan v.
the State of Michigan_ was resolved over two years later, in August
1985, when the Ingham County Circuit Court ruled in favor of the State
of Michigan. The Regents would then appeal for an additional two years,
and divest only after the Regents _won_ the resulting case in 1987 ---
their effort to demonstrate that the Regents, not the State, activist
demands, nor any body --- would compel investment decisions.

The fight for divestment from the South African apartheid regime is
instructive. It demonstrates that despite a mandate to uphold U-M\'s
mission to "developing \[students as\] leaders and citizens" who will
challenge the present and enrich the future, the Regents stand against
activist demands for a better future. They use procedural measures to
delay and leave in place material harm. They clamor for "independence"
over listening to staff, faculty, and students.

The case of South African divestment established an important precedent
for when divestment should be enacted. With its 1983 decision to divest
90% of its holdings from South Africa, the University resolved to
establish a committee of students, university administrators, members of
the university senate and alumni to advise the body on issues that
"involve serious moral or ethical questions which are of concern to many
members of the University community." At the same time, the resolution
placed important limits on when divestment decisions should occur: the
Regents declared that the "University should not seek out controversy"
and avoid "making commitments to political positions" thereby creating
an ostensibly apolitical policy in theory, but not in practice.

Forty years have changed little.[^2] The University claims today that
divestment is impossible and goes against standard practice, but this
ignores the several instances of divestment the University has taken
since 1983. In 2000, President Lee Bollinger created an ad-hoc committee
and commissioned them with writing a
[[report]](https://publicaffairs.vpcomm.umich.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/19/2015/01/Mar2000.AdHocAdvisoryCommitteeonTobaccaInvestments.pdf)
on divestment from the tobacco industry, and the University divested
from the industry in the same year.[^3] Five years later, when
commenting on divestment from tobacco, then-Vice President Slottow noted
that "the Faculty Senate Assembly, Michigan Student Assembly and a
number of other University leadership groups passed formal resolutions
or in other ways expressed the view that the University\'s ownership of
tobacco stocks was of widespread concern."

The Faculty Senate passed a
[[resolution]](https://facultysenate.umich.edu/senate-assembly-divestment-resolution/)
in January of this year to compel the University to divest from Israel,
and the Central Student Government passed divestment resolutions in
[[2017]](https://www.mlive.com/news/ann-arbor/2017/11/um_student_government_passes_r.html)
as well as in
[[2024]](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mNuKE2hP7U7M6gTkWqWvsEihi21uZYujhpbl6N8fRUI/edit).[^4]
The Shut It Down slate of candidates that ran on a pro-Palestine
platform won many of their elections including the positions of
President and Vice President, and of course the TAHRIR Coalition is
composed today of over one hundred student groups that echo the broad
support of the campus community for divestment. If Slottow's recognition
of the significance of campus opinion for considering divestment is any
meaningful precedent, the Regents have even more grounds to divest than
they did in 2000.

The Regents would contradict their policy to "shield the endowment from
political pressures" two more times after the process to divest from
tobacco, once in 2021 [[to
divest]](https://www.michigandaily.com/news/administration/regents-disinvest-from-holdings-related-to-fossil-fuels-commit-to-net-zero-endowment-by-2050-and-invest-140-million-into-renewable-energy/)
from the fossil fuel industry and most recently [[in
2022]](https://www.michigandaily.com/news/administration/university-divests-from-russian-investments-following-invasion-of-ukraine/)
to divest from Russia. In the recent "Endowment 101" post, the
administration
[[argued]](https://record.umich.edu/articles/endowment-101-facts-about-u-ms-17-9b-endowment/)
that "\[n\]either was a divestment, which is defined as a decision to
dispose of and fully exit investments for political or non-financial
reasons. Instead, these decisions were made for financial reasons and to
protect the value of the endowment." Of course, this insistence is a
lie; the Regents announced their intent to divest from Russia [[at the
same
time]](https://record.umich.edu/articles/u-m-to-exit-russian-investment-light-bell-tower-with-ukrainian-colors/)
that they announced they intended to light Burton Tower in the colors of
the Ukrainian flag in a show of solidarity, and a week after Interim
President Mary Sue Coleman condemning the attack on Ukraine as a
"ruthless attack on freedom." Fossil fuel divestment was similarly
championed as a victory for humanity rather than simply for financial
profit --- Regent Mark Bernstein argued that given the challenges of
climate change, "we have to do things differently and that includes the
way we invest our money;" Regent Jordan Acker would [[address
students]](https://record.umich.edu/articles/u-m-shifts-strategy-for-natural-resources-investments/)
about fossil fuel divestment saying that [["your activism matters, your
voice matters, your passion matters and, yes, your viewpoint
matters."]](https://web.archive.org/web/20191206004656/https://twitter.com/JordanAckerMI/status/1202700148414930945)
The Regents insist that they cannot be swayed by "political pressures"
to avoid standing for human rights, while at other times --- in some
cases at the same time --- proclaiming their values and how they drive
investment decisions.

Of course, the main way the Regents blatantly contradict their policy of
maintaining an endowment free of "political pressures" is by engaging in
expressly political investments. As we detailed in [[our
report]](http://bit.ly/UMEndowmentGuide) earlier this year,
the University has funded, through investments managers in venture
capital and private equity, companies producing surveillance tech,
bombs, unmanned drones, and fighter planes for the Zionist entity. Some, like israeli hacking
corporation NSO Group, have been widely criticized for their role in
death; others, like Shield AI and Toka, escape public scrutiny as they
power the genocide. Through all of these, the Regents engage in politics
as they claim to be free of it: Zionist, colonial politics attempting to
erase Palestinian people from their own land.

Over the next several weeks, we will analyze the work and governance of
the eight Regents that made these horrific investments possible ---
Denise Ilitch, Ron Weiser, Paul Brown, Sarah Hubbard, Mark Bernstein,
Michael Behm, Jordan Acker, and Katherine White. As the broad history
told in this introduction and the individual biographies elaborated in
these posts will illustrate, the Regents are not representatives of the
University community and definitely not beholden to upholding human
rights worldwide. Accordingly, the mission of the TAHRIR Coalition and
the community that has mobilized to support our encampment is thus not
to debate the merits of divestment but to end the university's
complicity in the genocide by giving the Regents no choice but to
divest.

[^1]:
    Much of this can now be found in the Michigan in the World online
    exhibit "Divestment for Humanity," a university-sanctioned history
    of post-Vietnam War activism.

[^2]:
    Oh, and fun fact: Regent Paul Brown's father was a University of
    Michigan Regent throughout the divestment process from apartheid
    South Africa.

[^3]:
    The University actually still invests in tobacco companies,
    despite committing to divest from the tobacco industry in 2000. In
    2018, the University held \$77,042 in ITC, \$4,365,000 in Philip
    Morris, and \$2,521,000 in Altria.

[^4]:
    The Michigan Student Assembly [[changed their
name]](https://www.michigandaily.com/uncategorized/michigan-student-assembly-change-its-name-january/)
    to the Central Student Government in 2011.
