---
layout: post
title:
  'Paul "Bing" Brown: Venture capitalist with a friendly
  face'
subtitle:
  'Our third installment in our series <em>The Regents vs.
  the Revolution</em>'
date: 2024-10-11
---

Regent Paul "Bing" Brown is one of the most outspoken
liberals on the Board of Regents, yet he also is the most
notorious for making opportunistic promises that are never
fulfilled. He is the Regent with the deepest ties to the
networks of venture capital and financing in the private
sphere that we rebel against in our divestment campaign.
Brown deploys narratives around people of color (especially
Black students), low-income students, ethics, and his union
membership, in order to win political points. He never makes
good on promises to actually benefit students and opposes
campaigns for human rights when it matters most.

Bing Brown comes from a long line of privileged political
players. His grandfather was a U.S. Senator, and his father
was running mate to the U.S. Representative Sander Levin in
the 1974 gubernatorial race. Brown's father, also named Paul
Brown,
[was a Regent during](https://quod.lib.umich.edu/u/umregproc/acw7513.1994.001/161)
the fight to divest from South Africa in the 1980s and was
tied for the longest serving regent in U of M history.
Regent Brown Sr., like all of the Regents at the time,
hesitated to take action around South African apartheid and
[believed that](https://michiganintheworld.history.lsa.umich.edu/antiapartheid/exhibits/show/exhibit/students-take-campus--1984-198/national-context--president-re%20https://michiganintheworld.history.lsa.umich.edu/antiapartheid/files/original/cf7308b1125433c4dbf79f290be15be9.pdf)
the institution "ought not to become involved in political
issues except on rare occasions," and that he had "not seen
evidence that divestment will have any effect on the
government of South Africa."

<div style="width: 100%; display: flex; place-content: center;">
    <div style="max-width: 50ch;">
        <img src="/assets/img/paul_brown.png" width="488" height="266" style="width: 100%; height: auto;">
    </div>
</div>

_Paul Brown Sr. and Harold Shapiro are confronted by BAM III
activists, 1987. From the Ann Arbor District Library
archives,
[hosted](https://apps.lib.umich.edu/online-exhibits/exhibits/show/history-of-the-william-monroe-/item/9530?exhibit=266&page=3456)
by the University of Michigan Library._

Like his father, Paul "Bing" Brown would represent a voice
of capital and power on the Board. Though all of the Regents
today have access to large amounts of political and economic
capital, Bing Brown specifically comes from the networks of
finance in the private sphere that the endowment today is
heavily invested in. Bing Brown was Vice President of
Capital Markets at the Michigan Economic Development
Corporation, and in that role Brown managed the State of
Michigan's \$2 billion 21st Century Jobs Fund, focusing on
investments into venture capital and private equity. Today,
Paul Brown is Managing Director of MemryX, a venture capital
firm operating both in Ann Arbor and Silicon Valley.

Brown used this experience to drive forward his campaign to
become Regent, in which he pushed for endowment transparency
and accountability. But these were empty promises that were
forgotten soon after he was elected. Brown, along with
Regent Jordan Acker, campaigned on a
[ten-point plan](https://www.facebook.com/story.php/?story_fbid=1939650096142784&id=1450468641727601)
for "ethics and transparency" that would ban both endowment
investments into companies run by university donors and
campaign contributions to Regents from those receiving
endowment investments. This plan was constructed in response
to a Detroit Free Press
[series of articles](https://www.freep.com/story/news/local/michigan/2018/02/02/how-we-did/1013416001/)
on corruption around the University endowment, including an
[article](https://www.freep.com/story/news/local/michigan/2018/09/13/university-michigan-regents-investments-campaigns/948952002/)
revealing incumbent Regent Andrea Fischer Newman had
accepted campaign donations from those receiving endowment
investments. The plan was released in October 2018, about a
month after Newman's donation scandal, and Acker and Brown
won first and second in the election for the Board of
Regents one month later.

Was this platform anything more than political opportunism,
to gain a few percentage points while Newman was embroiled
with corruption? You already know the answer. No aspect of
endowment management has been changed in response to the
ten-point plan. The plan announced that investments to donor
companies would be heavily scrutinized by a third-party; no
third-party exists. In fact, Stephen Ross (whose donations
Andrea Fischer Newman returned after the Free Press expos√©)
[received](https://regents.umich.edu/files/meetings/06-24/2024-06-IX-1.pdf)
a \$100 million investment in December 2023 for his
corporation Related Companies. The ten-point plan declared
that the University maintains records for "maximum
transparency" except for when there is a concern to privacy.
Yet, the University has routinely and frustratingly denied
our FOIA requests this year and even led the Graduate
Employees' Organization (GEO) to
[file](https://x.com/geo3550/status/1790387580111904868/photo/1)
an Unfair Labor Practice (ULP) charge over consistently
denied information requests. The ten-point plan even
demanded that Board of Regents meetings be held in the
evening to allow community members to attend. The meetings
today continue to be held during the morning and afternoon,
making it difficult for concerned community members and
students to attend. The Board of Regents only allows a
handful of visitors into these meetings and gives an
exceedingly short time (2 minutes) for public comments with
heavy police presence --- if anything, access to the
Regents' meetings have become more heavily restricted, not
opened to the public.

His opposition to endowment ethics would not stop there.
While on the campaign trail, he
[responded](https://www.michigandaily.com/michigan-in-color/progressive-except-palestine-university-regents-fail-protect-academic-freedom-0/)
to #UMDivest activists by denying apartheid and compared the
Boycott, Divest, Sanctions (BDS) movement to Masterpiece
Cakeshop's refusal to bake a cake for a gay couple. Students
aptly characterized the example as "a comparison so
offensive it is not worth a response." At the same event,
Brown compared Professor John Cheney-Lippold's refusal to
write a letter of recommendation for a student's study in
israel to a hypothetical white supremacist instructor
refusing to write a letter for a Black student seeking to
work at the NAACP.

As a venture capitalist himself, and the current Managing
Director of eLab Ventures, we should not be surprised that
Brown stands against ethics around the endowment. As we
wrote in our [report](http://bit.ly/UMEndowmentGuide) about
the endowment from February 2024, eLab Ventures benefits
from the lack of oversight and regulation around the
endowment through investments into companies receiving
endowment money. eLab Ventures' returns increase as its
investment recipients, like Akadeum Life Sciences and
MemryX, are able to fundraise additional capital from the
endowment---and Bing Brown reaps a profit.

Brown won his election by portraying himself as a pro-labor
candidate. He
[sat](https://www.michigandaily.com/news/administration/conversation-paul-brown-democratic-candidate-um-board-regents/)
on the board of the Huron Valley Area Labor Federation, won
[endorsements](https://twitter.com/geo3550/status/1060213257720479746)
from many unions during his election, and boasted about his
membership in the Lecturers' Employee Organization (LEO).
Brown
[lauded](https://www.michigandaily.com/news/administration/geo-protest-interrupts-onos-inaugural-procession-route/)
protesters from the Graduate Employees' Organization (GEO)
who demanded a living wage outside of Santa Ono's
inauguration. Of course, during GEO's abolitionist COVID-era
strike (Fall 2020), Bing Brown responded by introducing more
ways to police other students.
[During GEO's 2023 strike](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xStLhXRxUcA&t=5756s),
Bing Brown voiced support for undemocratic state-led fact
finding to avoid movement at the bargaining table and stated
that GEO's demands for a living wage did "not reflect well
on the students who we admitted and have chosen to teach."
On a
[panel discussing Regents' views on collective bargaining](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8kH2cG9raao),
Brown stated that he sometimes thinks workers win too much
in negotiations. Alums
[report](https://x.com/jenn_rubin/status/1649510205468868613)
that he even thought graduate workers were paid extra for
research on top of GSI labor --- and that it was not the
University's problem to pay workers a living wage.

His profoundly anti-labor stances highlight how he acts as a
pro-labor friend for the PR points alone. His silence and
refusal to engage with the Coalition's demands should stand
in stark contrast to his PR actions and reveal why he pays
lip service to labor, endowment ethics, or activism ---
sometimes desiring to appear friendly, always a voice of
management and capital.
