---
layout: post
title:
  'PRESS RELEASE: One Day after Southeast Michigan Raid of
  Pro-Palestine Activist Homes, U-M Encampment 11 Defendant
  Jailed for 4 Days for Being on UM Campus Between Classes'
date: 2025-04-25
categories: statements
---

**APRIL 25TH, 2025 ANN ARBOR, MI** - Yesterday, during a
motion hearing at the 14A - 1 District Court in Washtenaw
County, Judge Cedric J. Simpson sentenced a defendant from
the UMich Encampment 11 (E11) to four days in jail. MI State
Attorney General Dana Nessel had originally sought a 10-day
sentence---the maximum allowed for a bond violation. The
defendant, a senior at the University of Michigan, has not
been convicted of any crime, but was alleged to have
violated the conditions of their bond by being on the
University campus between their classes. This alleged
violation was reported by City Shield, a private security
company contracted by the University of Michigan for
approximately
\$[850,000](https://regents.umich.edu/files/meetings/10-24/2024-10-II-4.pdf)
for the purpose of surveilling pro-Palestine activists. The
defendant's attorney affirmed that the conditions of their
bond---which, in part, ban this student from the U-M campus
[with the exception of attending their classes---]were not
violated. The defendant was neither seen nor stopped by
campus police or university administrators during the
alleged bond violation. Following their release, the E11
defendant will be required to wear a GPS ankle monitor to
track their location until their graduation ceremony on May
3rd. Instead of spending these final days of their
undergraduate journey with friends, family, and the campus
community they cherish, they have been forced to spend them
alone in a jail cell.

The circumstances of the alleged bond violation clearly do
not warrant the punishment of jail time. District Judge
Simpson chastised the defendant for allegedly violating
their bond conditions, berating them with insults to their
intelligence and accusing the student of
[ill intent](https://www.instagram.com/reel/DI34NvQxNG-/?igsh=ZjQxd2NqbXYxdnA4)
for being on campus between classes. This comes immediately
before the students' graduation ceremonies, jailing them
amidst their final examinations, dissertation deadline, and
commencement activities. The student is set to be released
on Sunday, April 27th, at 8:00 AM.

This extreme punishment follows FBI raids of pro-Palestine
activists' homes, ordered by MI AG Dana Nessel on the
morning of April 23rd. This is part of a larger, escalating
trend of criminalization occurring within institutions of
higher education across the country. As demonstrated by the
recent kidnapping and detainment of Mahmoud Khalil, Rumeysa
Ozturk, and others for their pro-Palestine speech, the
University of Michigan Board of Regents and State AG Dana
Nessel endorse the same carceral punishment campaigns
against those opposing complicity in the genocide in Gaza.

The TAHRIR Coalition will hold a rally in support of the E11
defendant on the morning of their release, Sunday, April
27th, at 7:00 AM. Donations to support the defendantâ€™s legal
costs should be directed to the
[Legal Fund of Michigan Students for Palestine](https://chuffed.org/project/um-palestine-legalfund).
