---
layout: post
title:
  'PRESS RELEASE: AG Nessel forced to drop felony charges
  against 7 Palestine activists from U-M Encampment'
date: 2025-05-05
categories: statements
---

Contact: [tahrircoalition@proton.me](mailto:tahrircoalition@proton.me)

**MAY 5TH, 2025, ANN ARBOR, MI** - **Michigan Attorney
General Dana Nessel has dropped felony and misdemeanor
charges against 7 pro-Palestine activists from the
University of Michigan Gaza Solidarity Encampment.** Today,
after eight months of pre-trial hearings, Judge Cedric
Simpson was set to rule on a motion to recuse AG Nessel from
the case for her alleged anti-Palestinian, -Muslim, and
-Arab bias. Instead, the AG\'s office filed a motion to
dismiss all felony and misdemeanor charges from 7
pro-Palestine protestors as a result of months of sustained
pressure and advocacy by TAHRIR Coalition members and
community allies. This development comes two weeks after AG
Nessel sent the FBI, Michigan State Police, and local law
enforcement to violently raid the homes of various
pro-Palestine activists for alleged \"multi-jurisdictional
vandalism.\" The search warrants issued for the raids cited
no probable cause and no charges have been announced. While
the charges against the 7 protestors facing felonies have
been dropped, 4 defendants from the U-M Encampment are still
facing charge sat the misdemeanor level and 3 protestors are
still being charged at both the felony and misdemeanor level
for a \"die-in\" demonstration on U-M\'s campus last fall.
From the charges to the FBI raids, this unprecedented
repression of activists is a baseless attempt to undermine
the movement for a free Palestine and to silence free
speech.

AG Nessel\'s involvement in these cases has been scrutinized
since September, when her office announced felony and
misdemeanor charges against 11 pro-Palestine protesters
after a violent raid on the U-M Encampment last
May. Bypassing the local prosecutor, the AG pursued these
politically motivated charges, all local to Washtenaw
County, as a direct result of her close personal and
financial ties with the U-M Board of Regents. As
[reported in the Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2024/oct/24/michigan-attorney-general-dana-nessel-campus-gaza-protests),
U-M Regent Sam Bernstein co-chaired Nessel\'s AG campaign
and six of the eight U-M Regents have donated a combined
\$33,000 to her campaigns. Democratic Regent Jordan
Acker---a vocal Zionist who recently
[visited israel](https://www.detroitnews.com/story/news/politics/2025/01/16/university-michigan-regent-jordan-acker-meets-israeli-president-music-festival-survivors-vandalism/77593387007/)
on U-M funds and has repeatedly smeared pro-Palestinian
protesters---is also a close friend of the AG. Nessel
herself has publicly denounced the pro-Palestine movement,
mounting an aggressive media campaign against Rashida Tlaib,
the only Palestinian lawmaker in Congress. Nessel regularly
speaks at events sponsored by zionist organizations such as
Hillel, Temple israel, and the Jewish Federation of Ann
Arbor. While the AG\'s office has labelled allegations of
anti-Arab and -Muslim bias as \"baseless and absurd,\"
Nessel was recently forced to recuse herself from a separate
case in Hamtramck due to \"perceived\" bias against Arabs
annd Muslims. Nessel has repeatedly abused the power of her
office in order to prosecute her political enemies.

The TAHRIR coalition has been fighting for U-M to divest its
endowment from the ongoing genocide in Gaza, of which
over [\$6 billion is complicit](https://tahrirumich.org/research/endowment-guide) in
the israeli occupation of Palestine. U-M Regents have
repeatedly rejected these demands, without ever meeting with
pro-Palestine activists. \"Nessel's decision to drop the
charges marks the happy end of a small chapter in the
struggle for Palestinian liberation,\" said Oliver Kozler of
the Encampment 11 in a statement after the hearing. \"As
Nessel scrambles to save face in the wake of legal defeat,
the people know better: this is a profound political defeat
for both Nessel and American zionism. We won today, but our
fight is not over: so long as the genocide in Gaza and the
occupation of Palestine persists, so too shall we.\"
